schedules/main.md, before:

% Math 352 Schedule of Topics: Spring 2014

Here, you can find a rough guide to what was discussed in class on any
particular day. If you missed class, you can also find workshop handouts
and other materials here. You should also find a classmate who will share
more specific notes from the days you were unable to attend.

Weekly problem sets are [listed separately][weekly], as are [WeBWorK problems][ww]. 

To import a Sage worksheet into SageMathCloud, first download the worksheet file
to your local machine from a link below. Then, open a new Sage Worksheet. Drag
the downloaded file right onto the Worksheet pane and it should come right up.
Then you can modify your local copy in the cloud and it will be synced and saved
automatically.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date                Reading                 Topics 
--------------      ---------------------   -------------------------------------------------
February 10         None                    [Syllabus][s] and other generalities; [introduction to Sage][sage]

February 12         None                    Linear first-order equations. <br />
                                            [Workshop 01][w01] on integrating factors is due Friday. <br />
                                            WeBWorK 01 (Introductory concepts) is due Thursday at 10pm.

February 14&hearts; Sections 2.1, 2.2       Wrap up linear equations. <br />
                                            Separable equations ([PDF presentation][d01]). <br />
                                            Quiz 01 (WeBWorK 01).

February 17         Section 2.2             [Workshop 02][w02] on separable equations <br />
                                            WeBWorK 02 (linear equations) is due at 10pm.

February 19         Section 2.3             Introduction to mathematical modeling ([PDF presentation][d02]) <br />
                                            Quiz 02 (WeBWorK 02). <br />
                                            WeBWorK 03 (separable equations) is due at 10pm.

February 21         Section 2.3             Continued introduction to modeling.<br />
                                            Survey of group project possibilities ([PDF presentation][d03]). <br />
                                            Quiz 03 (WeBWorK 03). <br />
                                            [Weekly][weekly] assignment 1 is due. <br />

February 24         Section 2.3             No quiz today. Continue with modeling linear equations.<br />
                                            Group projects assigned (see [Friday's presentation][d03] for list of projects) <br />
                                            [Project grading rubric][rub]

February 26         Section 2.3             WeBWorK 04 (modeling) is due at 10pm. <br />                                        
                                            
February 28         Section 2.5             Autonomous equations ([PDF presentation][d04]). <br />
                                            [Workshop 03][w03] on modeling was not collected. <br />

March 3             Section 2.7             Euler's method. [Sage worksheet][sage-euler] you can download and import.<br />
                                            The Sage worksheet is not meant to be comprehensive, just a jumping-off point. <br />
                                            Quiz 04 (WeBWorK 04). <br />
                                            Weekly 2 is due by 3pm.

March 5             Exam 1                  **Exam 1**. <br />
                                            Exam 1 covers chapter 1 and sections 2.1--2.5, 2.7.

March 7             Section 3.1             Introduction to second-order linear equations. <br />
                                            [Workshop 04][w04] is due Monday, March 10. <br />
                                            Weekly 3 is due at 3pm.

March 10            Section 3.1             Exponential solutions to the second-order linear equation
                                            with constant coefficients. Discussed some of the results
                                            of Section 3.2.

March 12            Section 3.2             Negative discriminant: what happens when there are no
                    (read more than once)   exponential solutions? [PDF presentation][d05] <br />
                                            [Workshop 05][w05] on negative discriminants is due Friday, March 14.
                                            WeBWorK 05 is due at 10pm.

March 14 <br />     Section 3.3             Complex exponential solutions to the second-order equation
Pi Day, sucka                               with constant coefficients. <br />
                                            Quiz 05 (WeBWorK 05). [Workshop 06][w06] is due Monday, March 17.

March 17 <br />     Section 3.4             Finish [Workshop 06][w06] and recap sections 3.1--3.4. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d06] <br />
                                            WeBWorK 06 is due at 10pm Wednesday, March 19. <br />

March 19 <br />     Section 3.5             Inhomogeneous equations and the method of 
                                            undetermined coefficients. <br />
                                            WeBWorK 06 is due at 10pm. 

March 21 <br />     Section 3.5             [Workshop 07][w07] on reduction of order and undetermined coefficients. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d07]; [second presentation][d08]. <br/> 
                                            Quiz 06 (WeBWorK 06).

March 24--28        NA                      SPRIIIIING BREEEEEEAAAAAAK

March 31 <br />     Section 3.5             Finish undetermined coefficients: degeneracy and products. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d09]

April 2 <br />      Section 3.6             Variation of parameters: [Workshop 08][w08].<br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d10]<br />
                                            Quiz 07 (WeBWorK 07).

April 4 <br />      Section 3.6 <br />      Variation of parameters. Finish Workshop 08 ([solutions][sol08]).<br />
                    Skim 3.7                Begin unforced vibrations. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d11].
                                            

April 7 <br />      Section 3.7 <br />      More unforced vibrations; review for Exam 2. <br />
                    (read 191--197 <br />   WeBWorK 08 is due at 10pm. <br />
                    skim 197--199)          [PDF presentation][d12].               

                    Review for Exam 2       Exam 2 covers sections 3.1--3.7.

April 9             Review for Exam 2       EXAM 2

April 11            Section 3.8 <br />      Intro to forced vibrations. This is a bad day to miss. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d13].

April 14            Sections 4.1, 7.1--2    Vectors and matrices in Sage <br />
                                            Introduction to systems of equations; higher-order equations. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d14].
                                            
April 16            Sage handout<br />      Introduction to systems of linear (algebraic) equations in Sage <br />
                    Section 7.2             [Workshop 09][w09]. <!-- on converting to a system of 1st-order --> <br />
                                            [Sage worksheet][sage-solve-sys] (import to SageMathCloud)

April 18            Section 7.3             Visualizing matrix multiplication <br />
                                            [Workshop 10][w10] is due Monday, April 21.

April 21            Section 7.3             Phase portraits and trajectories <br /> 
                                            [Workshop 11][w11] is due Wednesday, April 23. <br />
                                            [Module 02][m02] to supplement our class discussions. <br />
                                            [Phase portraits in Sage][sage-phase] 

April 23            [Module 02][m02]        Eigenvektorseinführung (introduction to eigenvectors). <br />
                    Reread 7.1--7.3<br/>    Some hand calculations with small systems <br />
                    Skim 7.4                WeBWorK 09 is due at 10pm.

April 25            Section 7.4 <br />      Systems of first-order equations: analysis via eigenvectors. <br />
                    Section 7.5             Practice finding eigeninfo in Sage and converting to the solutions
                                            of a matrix-vector differential equation.
                                            [Workshop 12][w12] is due Monday, April 28.

April 28            Section 7.5 <br />      Plotting solutions of $2 \times 2$ systems, with help from Sage. <br />
                                            Homogeneous linear systems with constant coefficients
                                            [Workshop 13][w13] is not due for collection. <br />
                                            [More phase portraits in Sage][sage-phase-2]

April 30            Section 7.5 <br />      Analysis of eigenvectors, bifurcations, nodes. <br />
                    Section 7.6             Complex eigenvectors.
                                             

May 2               Section 7.6             More on complex eigenvectors; more practice with Sage. <br />
                                            Workshop 14 will probably not be collected.
                                            Quiz 8 on solving $2 \times 2$ systems by hand.

May 5               Review for Exam 3       Review for Exam 3.

May 7               Review for Exam 3       EXAM 3 <br />
                                            Exam 3 covers section 3.8 and sections 7.1--7.6. <br />
                                            Weekly assignment 10 is due by 3pm.

May 9               Skim 7.7, 7.8           Fundamental matrices and the matrix exponential

May 14              PRESENTATIONS           (Finals week) presentations: 1:30--4:30 pm.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[s]: ../syllabus/syllabus.pdf
[ww]: https://webwork.collegeofidaho.edu/webwork2/MAT352_S14/
[weekly]: problems.html

[sage]: ../modules/01/sage.html
[sage-euler]: ../sage/EulersMethod.sws
[sage-solve-sys]: ../sage/Solving-matrix-equations-2014-04-16.sws
[sage-phase]: ../sage/PhasePortraits.sws
[sage-phase-2]: ../sage/More-phase-portraits.sws

[rub]: ../project/rubric.pdf

[m01]: ../modules/01/Module.html
[m02]: ../modules/02/Module.pdf
[m03]: ../modules/03/Module.html
[m04]: ../modules/04/Module.html
[m05]: ../modules/05/Module.html
[m06]: ../modules/06/Module.html
[m07]: ../modules/07/Module.html
[m08]: ../modules/08/Module.html
[m09]: ../modules/09/Module.html
[m10]: ../modules/10/Module.html
[m11]: ../modules/11/Module.html
[m12]: ../modules/12/Module.html
[m13]: ../modules/13/Module.html
[m14]: ../modules/14/Module.html
[m15]: ../modules/15/Module.html
[m16]: ../modules/16/Module.html

[w00]: ../workshops/00/Workshop.pdf
[w01]: ../workshops/01/LinearFirstOrderEquations.pdf
[w02]: ../workshops/02/SeparableEquations.pdf
[w03]: ../workshops/03/ModelingLinearEquations.pdf
[w04]: ../workshops/04/SecondOrderLinear.pdf
[w05]: ../workshops/05/NegativeDiscriminant.pdf
[w06]: ../workshops/06/SinhCoshZeroDiscriminant.pdf
[w07]: ../workshops/07/ReductionOrderIntroUC.pdf
[w08]: ../workshops/08/VariationParameters.pdf
[sol08]: ../workshops/08/VariationParameters-Solutions.pdf
[w09]: ../workshops/09/MatricesVectorsSage.pdf
[w10]: ../workshops/10/MatricesAsTransformations.pdf
[w11]: ../workshops/11/PhasePortraits.pdf
[w12]: ../workshops/12/EigenvectorAnalysis.pdf
[w13]: ../workshops/13/EigenvectorAnalysisII.pdf
[w14]: ../workshops/14/ComplexEigenvectors.pdf
[w15]: ../workshops/15/Workshop.pdf
[w16]: ../workshops/16/Workshop.pdf

[d01]: ../decks/01/Deck.pdf
[d02]: ../decks/02/Deck.pdf
[d03]: ../decks/03/Deck.pdf
[d04]: ../decks/04/Deck.pdf
[d05]: ../decks/05/Deck.pdf
[d06]: ../decks/06/Deck.pdf
[d07]: ../decks/07/Deck.pdf
[d08]: ../decks/08/Deck.pdf
[d09]: ../decks/09/Deck.pdf
[d10]: ../decks/10/Deck.pdf
[d11]: ../decks/11/Deck.pdf
[d12]: ../decks/12/Deck.pdf
[d13]: ../decks/13/Deck.pdf
[d14]: ../decks/14/Deck.pdf
[d15]: ../decks/15/Deck.pdf
[d16]: ../decks/16/Deck.pdf
[d17]: ../decks/17/Deck.pdf
[d18]: ../decks/18/Deck.pdf
[d19]: ../decks/19/Deck.pdf
[d20]: ../decks/20/Deck.pdf
[d21]: ../decks/21/Deck.pdf
[d22]: ../decks/22/Deck.pdf
[d23]: ../decks/23/Deck.pdf

Commit message:

w14 w sage code example and sched 2014-05-04 11:45

schedules/main.md, after:

% Math 352 Schedule of Topics: Spring 2014

Here, you can find a rough guide to what was discussed in class on any
particular day. If you missed class, you can also find workshop handouts
and other materials here. You should also find a classmate who will share
more specific notes from the days you were unable to attend.

Weekly problem sets are [listed separately][weekly], as are [WeBWorK problems][ww]. 

To import a Sage worksheet into SageMathCloud, first download the worksheet file
to your local machine from a link below. Then, open a new Sage Worksheet. Drag
the downloaded file right onto the Worksheet pane and it should come right up.
Then you can modify your local copy in the cloud and it will be synced and saved
automatically.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date                Reading                 Topics 
--------------      ---------------------   -------------------------------------------------
February 10         None                    [Syllabus][s] and other generalities; [introduction to Sage][sage]

February 12         None                    Linear first-order equations. <br />
                                            [Workshop 01][w01] on integrating factors is due Friday. <br />
                                            WeBWorK 01 (Introductory concepts) is due Thursday at 10pm.

February 14&hearts; Sections 2.1, 2.2       Wrap up linear equations. <br />
                                            Separable equations ([PDF presentation][d01]). <br />
                                            Quiz 01 (WeBWorK 01).

February 17         Section 2.2             [Workshop 02][w02] on separable equations <br />
                                            WeBWorK 02 (linear equations) is due at 10pm.

February 19         Section 2.3             Introduction to mathematical modeling ([PDF presentation][d02]) <br />
                                            Quiz 02 (WeBWorK 02). <br />
                                            WeBWorK 03 (separable equations) is due at 10pm.

February 21         Section 2.3             Continued introduction to modeling.<br />
                                            Survey of group project possibilities ([PDF presentation][d03]). <br />
                                            Quiz 03 (WeBWorK 03). <br />
                                            [Weekly][weekly] assignment 1 is due. <br />

February 24         Section 2.3             No quiz today. Continue with modeling linear equations.<br />
                                            Group projects assigned (see [Friday's presentation][d03] for list of projects) <br />
                                            [Project grading rubric][rub]

February 26         Section 2.3             WeBWorK 04 (modeling) is due at 10pm. <br />                                        
                                            
February 28         Section 2.5             Autonomous equations ([PDF presentation][d04]). <br />
                                            [Workshop 03][w03] on modeling was not collected. <br />

March 3             Section 2.7             Euler's method. [Sage worksheet][sage-euler] you can download and import.<br />
                                            The Sage worksheet is not meant to be comprehensive, just a jumping-off point. <br />
                                            Quiz 04 (WeBWorK 04). <br />
                                            Weekly 2 is due by 3pm.

March 5             Exam 1                  **Exam 1**. <br />
                                            Exam 1 covers chapter 1 and sections 2.1--2.5, 2.7.

March 7             Section 3.1             Introduction to second-order linear equations. <br />
                                            [Workshop 04][w04] is due Monday, March 10. <br />
                                            Weekly 3 is due at 3pm.

March 10            Section 3.1             Exponential solutions to the second-order linear equation
                                            with constant coefficients. Discussed some of the results
                                            of Section 3.2.

March 12            Section 3.2             Negative discriminant: what happens when there are no
                    (read more than once)   exponential solutions? [PDF presentation][d05] <br />
                                            [Workshop 05][w05] on negative discriminants is due Friday, March 14.
                                            WeBWorK 05 is due at 10pm.

March 14 <br />     Section 3.3             Complex exponential solutions to the second-order equation
Pi Day, sucka                               with constant coefficients. <br />
                                            Quiz 05 (WeBWorK 05). [Workshop 06][w06] is due Monday, March 17.

March 17 <br />     Section 3.4             Finish [Workshop 06][w06] and recap sections 3.1--3.4. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d06] <br />
                                            WeBWorK 06 is due at 10pm Wednesday, March 19. <br />

March 19 <br />     Section 3.5             Inhomogeneous equations and the method of 
                                            undetermined coefficients. <br />
                                            WeBWorK 06 is due at 10pm. 

March 21 <br />     Section 3.5             [Workshop 07][w07] on reduction of order and undetermined coefficients. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d07]; [second presentation][d08]. <br/> 
                                            Quiz 06 (WeBWorK 06).

March 24--28        NA                      SPRIIIIING BREEEEEEAAAAAAK

March 31 <br />     Section 3.5             Finish undetermined coefficients: degeneracy and products. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d09]

April 2 <br />      Section 3.6             Variation of parameters: [Workshop 08][w08].<br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d10]<br />
                                            Quiz 07 (WeBWorK 07).

April 4 <br />      Section 3.6 <br />      Variation of parameters. Finish Workshop 08 ([solutions][sol08]).<br />
                    Skim 3.7                Begin unforced vibrations. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d11].
                                            

April 7 <br />      Section 3.7 <br />      More unforced vibrations; review for Exam 2. <br />
                    (read 191--197 <br />   WeBWorK 08 is due at 10pm. <br />
                    skim 197--199)          [PDF presentation][d12].               

                    Review for Exam 2       Exam 2 covers sections 3.1--3.7.

April 9             Review for Exam 2       EXAM 2

April 11            Section 3.8 <br />      Intro to forced vibrations. This is a bad day to miss. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d13].

April 14            Sections 4.1, 7.1--2    Vectors and matrices in Sage <br />
                                            Introduction to systems of equations; higher-order equations. <br />
                                            [PDF presentation][d14].
                                            
April 16            Sage handout<br />      Introduction to systems of linear (algebraic) equations in Sage <br />
                    Section 7.2             [Workshop 09][w09]. <!-- on converting to a system of 1st-order --> <br />
                                            [Sage worksheet][sage-solve-sys] (import to SageMathCloud)

April 18            Section 7.3             Visualizing matrix multiplication <br />
                                            [Workshop 10][w10] is due Monday, April 21.

April 21            Section 7.3             Phase portraits and trajectories <br /> 
                                            [Workshop 11][w11] is due Wednesday, April 23. <br />
                                            [Module 02][m02] to supplement our class discussions. <br />
                                            [Phase portraits in Sage][sage-phase] 

April 23            [Module 02][m02]        Eigenvektorseinführung (introduction to eigenvectors). <br />
                    Reread 7.1--7.3<br/>    Some hand calculations with small systems <br />
                    Skim 7.4                WeBWorK 09 is due at 10pm.

April 25            Section 7.4 <br />      Systems of first-order equations: analysis via eigenvectors. <br />
                    Section 7.5             Practice finding eigeninfo in Sage and converting to the solutions
                                            of a matrix-vector differential equation.
                                            [Workshop 12][w12] is due Monday, April 28.

April 28            Section 7.5 <br />      Plotting solutions of $2 \times 2$ systems, with help from Sage. <br />
                                            Homogeneous linear systems with constant coefficients<br />
                                            [Workshop 13][w13] is not due for collection. <br />
                                            [More phase portraits in Sage][sage-phase-2]

April 30            Section 7.5 <br />      Analysis of eigenvectors, bifurcations, nodes. <br />
                    Section 7.6             Complex eigenvectors.
                                             

May 2               Section 7.6             More on complex eigenvectors; more practice with Sage. <br />
                                            Workshop 14 will not be collected.<br />
                                            Quiz 8 on solving $2 \times 2$ systems by hand. <br />
                                            Some more [Sage example code][sage-complex] for complex eigenvalues.

May 5               Review for Exam 3       Review for Exam 3.

May 7               Review for Exam 3       EXAM 3 <br />
                                            Exam 3 covers section 3.8 and sections 7.1--7.6. <br />
                                            Weekly assignment 10 is due by 3pm.

May 9               Skim 7.7, 7.8           Fundamental matrices and the matrix exponential

May 14              PRESENTATIONS           (Finals week) presentations: 1:30--4:30 pm.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[s]: ../syllabus/syllabus.pdf
[ww]: https://webwork.collegeofidaho.edu/webwork2/MAT352_S14/
[weekly]: problems.html

[sage]: ../modules/01/sage.html
[sage-euler]: ../sage/EulersMethod.sws
[sage-solve-sys]: ../sage/Solving-matrix-equations-2014-04-16.sws
[sage-phase]: ../sage/PhasePortraits.sws
[sage-phase-2]: ../sage/More-phase-portraits.sws
[sage-complex]: ../sage/Complex-eigenvalues.sws

[rub]: ../project/rubric.pdf

[m01]: ../modules/01/Module.html
[m02]: ../modules/02/Module.pdf
[m03]: ../modules/03/Module.html
[m04]: ../modules/04/Module.html
[m05]: ../modules/05/Module.html
[m06]: ../modules/06/Module.html
[m07]: ../modules/07/Module.html
[m08]: ../modules/08/Module.html
[m09]: ../modules/09/Module.html
[m10]: ../modules/10/Module.html
[m11]: ../modules/11/Module.html
[m12]: ../modules/12/Module.html
[m13]: ../modules/13/Module.html
[m14]: ../modules/14/Module.html
[m15]: ../modules/15/Module.html
[m16]: ../modules/16/Module.html

[w00]: ../workshops/00/Workshop.pdf
[w01]: ../workshops/01/LinearFirstOrderEquations.pdf
[w02]: ../workshops/02/SeparableEquations.pdf
[w03]: ../workshops/03/ModelingLinearEquations.pdf
[w04]: ../workshops/04/SecondOrderLinear.pdf
[w05]: ../workshops/05/NegativeDiscriminant.pdf
[w06]: ../workshops/06/SinhCoshZeroDiscriminant.pdf
[w07]: ../workshops/07/ReductionOrderIntroUC.pdf
[w08]: ../workshops/08/VariationParameters.pdf
[sol08]: ../workshops/08/VariationParameters-Solutions.pdf
[w09]: ../workshops/09/MatricesVectorsSage.pdf
[w10]: ../workshops/10/MatricesAsTransformations.pdf
[w11]: ../workshops/11/PhasePortraits.pdf
[w12]: ../workshops/12/EigenvectorAnalysis.pdf
[w13]: ../workshops/13/EigenvectorAnalysisII.pdf
[w14]: ../workshops/14/ComplexEigenvectors.pdf
[w15]: ../workshops/15/Workshop.pdf
[w16]: ../workshops/16/Workshop.pdf

[d01]: ../decks/01/Deck.pdf
[d02]: ../decks/02/Deck.pdf
[d03]: ../decks/03/Deck.pdf
[d04]: ../decks/04/Deck.pdf
[d05]: ../decks/05/Deck.pdf
[d06]: ../decks/06/Deck.pdf
[d07]: ../decks/07/Deck.pdf
[d08]: ../decks/08/Deck.pdf
[d09]: ../decks/09/Deck.pdf
[d10]: ../decks/10/Deck.pdf
[d11]: ../decks/11/Deck.pdf
[d12]: ../decks/12/Deck.pdf
[d13]: ../decks/13/Deck.pdf
[d14]: ../decks/14/Deck.pdf
[d15]: ../decks/15/Deck.pdf
[d16]: ../decks/16/Deck.pdf
[d17]: ../decks/17/Deck.pdf
[d18]: ../decks/18/Deck.pdf
[d19]: ../decks/19/Deck.pdf
[d20]: ../decks/20/Deck.pdf
[d21]: ../decks/21/Deck.pdf
[d22]: ../decks/22/Deck.pdf
[d23]: ../decks/23/Deck.pdf
